## Blood Pressure Reports
### Stacked Left Systolic Blood Pressure Percentages by Week
Show the percentage of Left Systolic daily blood pressure readings recorded aggregrated by week according to [AMA blood pressure categories](https://targetbp.org/best-practices/guidelines17/).  
#### input
Supplied as CSV formatted file named BPdata.csv.

**\<MeasurementDate\>,\<LeftSystolicReading\>**
 + The names above represent column headings.  A column heading row is optional but if it appears, the column names should reflect the names above separated by commas.
 + **\<MeasurementDate\>** Should be format of _MM/DD/YYYY_ or _YYYY/MM/DD_.
 + **\<LeftSystolicReading\>**  NNN is an integer representing systolic blood pressure.  It's assumed this measurement is in mm Hg.
#### etl
To execute the transform 
  + start a terminal
  + navigate to the "Stacked_Bar_Graph_By_Week" subdirectory using ```cd```
  + execute the following:
```
> cd etl
> etl <InputToOutput.sql
```
#### output
The CSV generated by applying the **etl** function conforms to Google Sheet's stacked bar chart.  

**\<WeekSinceAnchor\>,\<Low\>,\<NormalLower\>,\<Normal\>,ElevatedLower\>,\<Elevated\>,\<Stage1Lower\>,\<Stage1\>,\<Stage2Lower\>,\<Stage2\>,\<Stage2High\>**
  + **\<WeekSinceAnchor\>**  Is an integer ordinal relative to the distance in weeks from the anchor week.  The anchor week is defined as the date of the oldest MeasurementDate appearing in the input data.  An WeekSinceAnchor value of zero indicates that the blood pressure measurement was within the first 6 days of the anchor week's date.

    This column's values appear as the x-axis values displayed by a stacked bar chart.

The remaining columns are aggregrate counts of a week's worth of left systolic measurements whose value falls within the range of the reading implied by the column name.
| Column Name  |  Systolic Range |
| :------------ | :-------------: |
| **\<Low\>**  | Systoltic < 90  |
| **\<NormalLower\>** | 90 =< Systolic =< 110 |
| **\<Normal\>**  | 111 =< Systolic =< 119 |
| **\<ElevatedLower\>** | 120 =< Systolic =< 124 |
| **\<Elevated\>** | 125 =< Systolic =< 129  |
|**\<Stage1Lower\>** | 130 =< Systolic =< 134 |
|**\<Stage1\>** | 135 =< Systolic =< 139 |
|**\<Stage2Lower\>** | 140 =< Systolic =< 144 |
|**\<Stage2\>** | 145 =< Systolic =< 149 |
|**\<Stage2High\>**| 150 =< Systolic |

These columns become the "series" data that's stacked on top of one another to create a vertical bar.  They are stacked on top of each other in left to right order where  **\<Low\>** is the bottom most layer of the vertical bar while **\<Stage2High\>** sits on the bar's top.
 

  The oldest measurement becomes an anchor that's used to calculate a ordinal relative to it.

|WeekSinceAblation,NormalLower,Normal,ElevatedLower,Elevated,Stage1Lower,Stage1,Stage2Lower,Stage2,Stage2High
1,,2,3,3,4,1,,,
2,2,4,4,3,1,,,,
3,3,7,1,1,1,,,,
4,6,7,2,1,,,,,
5,7,6,1,,,,,,
6,1,1,,,,,,,
7,4,5,,,,,,,
8,2,5,3,,,,,,



### Reporting Framework
Every report has same abstract format:
  + input 
  + etl process
  + output
#### input
Supplies the blood pressure readings in an CSV formated file expected by the report's stated input.
  + The CSV formated input file must be saved to the "input" subdirectory of the specific report's parent directory.
  + The file must be named BPdata.csv
  + The file's CSV format must conform to the desired input reporting format.
#### etl process
The transform process that converts the BPData into a form needed by either the next step in the etl process or the desired final output format.  For example, the report [Stacked Left Systolic Blood Pressure Percentages by Week](#stacked-left-systoli-blood-pressure-percentages-by-week) converts its BPdata.csv file into an output CSV file that can easily be consumed by Google Sheet's Graph tool to easily generate a stacked bar chart.
The etl process employs SQL to program its transforms.  Use SQL VIEWs to create a layered set of transforms to encode the desired conversion from input to output.  One could also create a transform pipeline by feeding the
output of one etl process to into the input of another one but this level of complexity is probably unnecessary. 
#### output
The CSV report generated by appling the etl process to the report's inputs.
  + The etl process must write the report CSV to the "output subdirectory" of the specific report's parent directory.
  + The file must be named "BPreport.csv"
  + The file CSV format must conform to the desired output reporting format.


potentially requires its own input data format. Therefore, each However interface Blood pressure readings must conform to the following CSV format:
|   Date   |  Time  |LeftSystolic|LeftDiastolic|Pulse |
|MM/DD/YYYY|HH:MM:SS|-----------------------------------------------------------
### Stacked Left Systolic Blood Pressure Percentages by Week
Show the percentage of various category

|   Date   |  Time  |LeftSystolic|LeftDiastolic|Pulse |
---------------------------------
|MM/DD/YYYY|HH:MM:SS|-----------------------------------------------------------






### Convert Google Sheet 
+ Copy existing blood pressure readings since 1/27/2023 to new sheet
+ Change Date display format to match
